>> Will Sentance: Okay, so at this point,
we are already feeling, yeah,
thank you so much.
I could tell straightaway
that calling multiplyBy2(4)
is going to return an 8 into output.
Why have I built all this for that?
Well, because there's even more
than what's going on behind
the scenes here that we need to know.
Those are the heart bits
follow more easily.
It's known as our, well, what?
What is the way we got these
execution contexts being created?
One here, this one we said closed.
Actually now, this one we said closed.
And already, I'm kinda struggling to keep
track of it, am I in the global one?
Am I in this?
What if I ran another function inside of
multiplyBy2?
What if I ran multiplyBy2 recursively?
Inside of here I ran multiplyBy2 and
then inside of that I run multiplyBy2.
How am I gonna keep track of all
these where am I, in my execution?
Which function am I being,
am I inside at the moment?
How can I keep track of it?
Griffin,
>> Griffin: Is it the state?
>> Will Sentance: State, Ameen?
>> Amin: Call stack.
>> Will Sentance: Call stack,
Ameen is spot on.
It's called the call stack,
call stack, there it is.
And it's a special data structure.
That just means a way of storing
information, of storing data.
Special data structure that allows
us to track where am I currently?
Where is JavaScript currently?
Where is the thread of
execution currently in my code?
Am I running through line one,
line two, line three?
Global land, global execution context, am
I running inside of a call to multiplyBy2?
The first one, or the second, okay?
So it keeps track of it.
What does it add immediately
when it starts running my code?
What's the first execution
context on my call stack?
Art?
Dave,
what's the first one of my call stack?
Which one do we start in, Art?
Where do we start in our code?
Griffin?
>> Griffin: Global.
>> Will Sentance: Global, so
that's the very first one we add
is our global execution context, okay?
Now, Shellby,
I hit the line multiplyBy2(4),
what happens to my call stack do
you think Shellby at that point?
>> Shelby: It goes to local?
>> Will Sentance: It goes to local,
so what does that mean,
Ameen, in terms of my actual call stack?
So we said when we entered,
we added global to the call stack.
Let me just tell you what that means.
Whatever is top of the call stack
is where JavaScript thread,
where is currently is running my code.
Whatever is top, so
JavaScript never has to worry where am I.
Where am I in the code right now?
Whatever is top of the call stack,
that's where I am.
And a stack is a very good way of
storing this, because when I start
calling multiplyBy2(4),
I add it to the top of the call stack.
And the stack is a data
structure of the format,
the last thing you put into it is
the first thing you take out of it.
So when I add multiplyBy2
on to top of global,
that means I've started
running multiplyBy2.
When I finish running multiplyBy2,
I close that execution context,
I go back to global.
What happens to my multiplyBy2 on
top of the call stack, Andrea?
>> Andrea: It goes away.
>> Will Sentance: It goes away because
it was the last thing that was put in.
So it's the first thing
that gets taken out.
So this is a great format for
tracking our execution context and
where we are in our code.
Because as soon as I start
writing a function, I go inside.
When I finish it I close that one out.
So I created then it's inevitably
the next one I take off.
The next one I remove.
So last in, first out.
It's a stack of calls to functions.
Starts global and
then we add multiplyBy2(4).
And what's the posh name for
adding to a stack?
Who knows what the fancy,
technical name for adding to a stack is?
Andrew?
Anyone know?
>> Clara: Pushing.
>> Will Sentance: Pushing, Clara is right.
We push onto the stack and
now we're inside multiplyBy2.
When I finish executing multiplyBy2 and
I return that,
how do I know I've finished
executing a function?
>> Clara: Return.
>> Will Sentance: Return,
what if it doesn't say return,
just a closing curly brace?
Means implicit return.
An implicit return defaults
to returning what?
If I don't write the word return,
what do I default to, Mohammad?
>> Mohammad: The variable?
>> Will Sentance: What's the default,
Griffin, return value of a function if
I don't return something explicitly?
Clara?
>> Clara: Undefined?
>> Will Sentance: Undefined, correct.
Exactly, so out I come, and
this execution context gets removed,
erased, deleted.
So it gets taken off the call stack,
and we go back to global.
And what's the posh term for
being taken off a call stack?
Remove from a stack, Clara?
>> Clara: Popping.
>> Will Sentance: Popping, I popped the
call to multiplyBy2 off the call stack,
and where do I go?
Where do I go next?
We may think, Griffin, I asked you,
we finished running multiplyBy2,
we go back into global, but
JavaScript doesn't know that by default.
It only knows that because, look at that,
it got rid of the call to multiplyBy2, and
where did it go back to?
What's at the top of the call stack now?
>> Speaker 8: Global.
>> Will Sentance: Global.
So now, let's go back there.
But wait, the next line says,
spin up a new execution context,
because the parens, the parens say make
execution context So at this point,
what's gonna happen to my call stack,
Dave?
>> Dave: The local is gonna go
to the top of the call stack.
>> Will Sentance: Very good job,
Dave, very nice.
I'm gonna add the execution called as the
call to multiplyBy2(10) to my call stack.
There it is, top of the call stack.
All right, then I finish running
the call to multiplyBy2.
Matthew, what happens to my call stack?
I've finished running multiplyBy2(10).
What happens to my call stack?
>> Matthew: Local is removed, global is-
>> Will Sentance: It's left, and
it's therefore top of the call stack.
>> Matthew: Right.
>> Will Sentance: And therefore we know
that is where our code is now running.
Okay folk, when you execute a function,
you create a new execution context,
it comprises the thread.
We go through the code inside the function
line by line by line by line.
And a local memory where anything defined
inside the function is stored there,
not in global.
Anything defined inside the function,
do we still result in global?
No, we stored it in the local memory.
By the way we stored in the local
memory because the call to multiplyBy2,
that execution context was top
of the call stack, perfect.
This top of the call stack means
that's where my thread is, and
that's where I'm storing myself in memory.
Top of the call stack means everything,
and
when we finish running multiplyBy2(4),
we jump back out into global,
and we pop off the call to
multiplyBy2 from the stack.
Okay, this call stack let's us keep
track of all these execution contexts.
We have the global one to start,
this little baby one here for
the running of multiplyBy2, then we
have another, then we go back to global.
Then we do another little baby one here
for running multiplyBy2 again, okay?
This local memory by the way
has a very fancy name.
Does anyone what the fancy name for
the local memory is?
Shelby?
>> Will Sentance: I mean,
it's only a knowledge question.
You do know this.
It's called a variable environment.
I like that name, I guess,
because it's like the environment
of available variants.
Sort of,
the environment is the stuff around you.
It's the available variables around you,
it's the available data.
This is live data stored in memory.
Sitting there, live in memory,
stored inside the running and multiplyBy2.